Hello Earthling!

Welcome to Day 1 out of 7 of your MoonDAO onboarding. So, are you ready to take this relationship to the next level and start becoming an active member of the MoonDAO community? We hope so.

MoonDAO’s mission is to accelerate the creation of a self-sustaining, self-governing settlement on the Moon by 2030 to act as a launch point for humanity to explore the cosmos.

A goal this ambitious will need the backing of smart, passionate individuals from all over the globe (people just like you) to make this a reality and we believe that a Decentralized Autonomous Organization can play a pivotal role in making this happen.

MoonDAO firmly believes in a bottom-up approach, where we are united by principles of equality, freedom, pursuit of happiness, justice, privacy, decentralization of power, transparency, private ownership, sustainability, and equal access to opportunity for anyone in the world, regardless of their origin. MoonDAO is a hub for scientists, engineers, artists, philosophers, and everyday people to come together and collaborate to build an optimistic, space-faring future for everyone.

While MoonDAO is a living organization, subject to the ambitions and desires of its members (our mission was nowhere near this ambitious when MoonDAO began), we do have a five phase plan that guides our efforts:

🌒 Phase 1: ✅ Deploy a token for decentralized governance of MoonDAO
🌓 Phase 2: ✅ Send a MoonDAO member (or two) to space
🌔 Phase 3: ⏹️ Provide funding to public goods related to space research and exploration
🌕 Phase 4: ⏹️ Put a self-sustaining, self-governing MoonDAO colony on the Moon
🌝 Phase 5: ⏹️ Have sweet Moon parties (everyone's invited)

We accomplished the first two phases less than a year after starting and are currently focused on Phase 3: supporting space exploration and research as we set the stage for the Moon.

{{ snippet.cta2 }}

The exploration of space should unify the world, not pit us against each other like the last space race. After all, aren't we all just curious earthlings that want to explore the unknown? Now, Web 3.0 represents a technology that can unify earthlings and decentralize space exploration across borders.

Those are our values and mission in short. As mentioned previously, we are a living organization that is continually evolving. While we pride ourselves on having a flat-hierarchy, being permission-less, and open to anyone from any country, we are still in the process of progressively decentralizing and integrating more autonomous functions, so bear with us.

The Web3 World is full of jargon and lingo that take a while to learn, and MoonDAO also has its fair share of lingo, background, and internal processes – the goal of the upcoming emails is to get you up to speed with MoonDAO as an organization so you can better understand what has happened, what is happening, and how you can contribute.

For instance, in MoonDAO, Earthling is the most basic rank of any member of our community, typically someone who is lurking or just getting started... But we also have Moon Settlers (Project Contributors), Rocketeers (Project Leaders), and Astronauts (Elected Leaders).

The upcoming emails will guide you from Earthling to MoonDAO voter to Moon Settler and beyond!

There is no Moon Mission for you today, but in our next email, we will help you take “one small step” to getting involved with the MoonDAO community.