Hey {{ subscriber.first_name | strip | default: "Earthling" }},

Welcome to Day 2 out of 7 of your Web3 onboarding. According to ancient and medieval scientists, ether was the material that filled the space beyond earth; a subtle element that provided the medium through which light could travel in a vacuum. The fifth element, as it was known, was essentially weightless, frictionless, and undetectable chemically or physically.

The theory was disproven and then abandoned entirely after Albert Einstein put forward his theory of special relativity, but the term emerged from obscurity once again, serving as inspiration for the name of a new decentralized, open-source blockchain with smart contract functionality that emerged after Bitcoin… Ethereum.

In our last email, we talked about Bitcoin which aimed to be peer-to-peer money, but Ethereum wanted to be peer-to-peer _anything_, a blockchain able to run any computer code or simple computations in a decentralized way that would live simultaneously on nodes all over the world.

So while Bitcoin was digital money, Ethereum could be digital anything - a base protocol for almost endless types of projects, like the internet itself.

It was out of that new Ether that the Web3 ecosystem flourished.

It opened the space where Decentralized Autonomous Organizations like MoonDAO emerged, allowed the ability to create tokens like our MOONEY governance token so stakeholders can vote on proposals, created decentralized exchanges to swap currencies and tokens, and created decentralized finance where you can get loans or supply liquidity (and get rewarded), and so many other functionalities across the Internet, some of which we will be getting into in upcoming emails.

Ethereum is creating an Internet full of decentralized applications utilizing smart contracts and computer programming language that allow anyone from anywhere to take part without having to rely on trusted third parties or gatekeepers. This means that if you want to participate in governing MoonDAO, you can!

This is part of the reason we believe MoonDAO can play an instrumental role in making humanity interplanetary while offering opportunities for governance, ownership, and involvement for all as we start expanding into that final frontier in the decades ahead.

{{ snippet.cta2 }}
## More About Ethereum

First, a point of clarification: Ethereum is the network and Ether is the underlying currency. Ethereum is a proof-of-stake blockchain where stakeholders secure and validate transactions on the network. One of the major criticisms of cryptocurrency is the vast amount of energy wasted to secure the network by performing complex calculations called hashes, which is what Bitcoin uses (and Ethereum used to utilize).

But after Ethereum made the transition to proof-of-stake, its energy usage dropped a dramatic 99.95% overnight – making it one of the biggest decarbonization events in any industry in history and slashing global energy consumption by 0.2%, equivalent to the carbon footprint of a medium-sized country.

Ether is not just a cryptocurrency or used to transfer value in a peer-to-peer fashion. Ether is also used to pay for that transfer or any other operation on the Ethereum platform. Because every Ethereum transaction consumes computational resources, transactions come with a cost. Gas is the fee needed to conduct an Ethereum transaction. These gas fees in turn are the rewards that pay network validators for their work securing the blockchain and network.

Just like how you need gas to drive a car or fuel for a rocket motor, Ether is the fuel that powers this globally distributed computer network called Ethereum.

So, like the ether of centuries past, this new Ether aimed to be an underlying and imperceptible medium, but it would do so across the Internet space and provide the means for virtually any computer application to run.
## 🚀 Today’s Moon Mission

In order to operate within the Ethereum ecosystem, you will need to acquire a small amount of Ether (or just ETH for short, pronounced like teeth, without the first T) to pay for gas fees or perform transactions.

Having ETH will allow you to do many interesting things in Web3, but for our purposes, it will enable you to get some MOONEY (the governance token of MoonDAO) which means you will be able to vote on active proposals and participate more actively in our mission to decentralize space for everyone!

The easiest way to acquire ETH is to sign-up on a centralized exchange, confirm your identity, link your bank account, and purchase a small amount of ETH. A small amount means different things to different people, but you can start experimenting and learning about Web3 with about $50-100 USD equivalent in Ether.

_Note: You don’t need to buy a whole Ether, you can buy fractions of it and still have the same functionality, so don’t pay attention to the price of a whole Ether._

There are [​lots of Centralized Exchanges to choose from​](https://coinledger.io/tools/best-us-crypto-exchanges), but we usually recommend signing up with [​Coinbase​](https://www.coinbase.com) or [​Binance ​](https://www.binance.com)(for non-US users), which are two of the largest and most popular exchanges. If you prefer another Centralized Exchange, that's fine too, so long as you can transfer out and take custody of your crypto funds.

- [​Sign up on Coinbase​](https://www.coinbase.com) or another exchange
- Purchase a small amount of ETH

**Important: Today’s Moon Mission is somewhat time sensitive, so don’t skip it!** Exchanges have hold times to ensure bank funds clear before you can use the ETH, so you will need to do these steps before we can proceed with future missions. Having an account at an exchange will also allow you to convert your cryptocurrency funds into your local currency and transfer them back to your bank if you'd like to do so in the future.

Hopefully, you have a better idea of Ethereum and the possibilities it opens for trust-free organizations and decentralized applications on the Internet. Honestly, we are only scratching the surface of what currently exists and what is possible, so you should definitely keep exploring the space to learn more…

In our next email, we will be taking you DAOn the wormhole and giving you a glimpse of how these Decentralized Autonomous Organizations work.
## Further Reading

- [​Infinite Machine by Camila Russo​](https://amzn.to/3h90KUK): a very readable book about the creation and growth of Ethereum told through a colorful cast of characters and the (many) ups and downs. Highly recommended to get up to speed!
- [​The Ethereum Whitepaper​](https://ethereum.org/en/whitepaper/): While Ethereum itself has evolved since the document was originally published by Vitalik Buterin in 2014, it shows the vision of Ethereum and how it builds on the ethos of Bitcoin.
- [​What is Ether (ETH)?​](https://ethereum.org/en/eth/): An article and short quiz from the Ethereum Foundation.