Hey {{ subscriber.first_name | strip | default: "Earthling" }},

Welcome to Day 3 out of 7 of your Web3 onboarding. In our previous email, we covered the basics of the Ethereum blockchain and how it opened up a world of decentralized applications and programs that run across a globally distributed network, meaning they can operate without intermediaries, in a trust-free and uncensorable system.

Your previous Moon Mission was to set up an account on a Centralized Exchange like [​Coinbase​](https://www.coinbase.com) and purchase a small amount of Ether – you will need to do this in order to proceed with future Moon Missions.

But while we wait for that transaction to settle in order to complete future Moon Missions, there is still plenty that we need to cover…

One thing you may still be wondering about is what on earth are DAOs (pronounced “dow”)…
## What is a DAO?

DAOs (Decentralized Autonomous Organizations) have emerged as the organizational structure of choice in the Web3 world. While DAOs can come in many different shapes and colors, at their core, they are bottom-up, community-led, virtual organizations without central leadership where governance decisions are directed by stakeholders usually by a token created on the Ethereum blockchain.

DAOs have been referred to as the corporate entities of Web3 or more dismissively as group chats with a shared bank account.

You can find DAOs focusing on a whole myriad of subjects from those trying to create a decentralized nation-state existing virtually (or new cities existing physically), to those focusing on biotech and scientific advances, to those striving to make humanity multi-planetary and accessible to all, not just the wealthy and well-connected. 😉

Ethereum is the base protocol and “infinite computer” that allowed for the creation of simple smart contracts that empower DAOs to build a community of passionate people working toward a common goal in a trust-free system!

In the case of MoonDAO, we began with a fundraising project and the creation of MOONEY which is the governance token (known as an ERC-20 Token) that allows our members to voice their opinions on important decisions, projects, and any decision which involves the treasury.

{{ snippet.cta1 }}

The MOONEY governance token is held in a “wallet” and allows stakeholders to directly vote on MoonDAO proposals without having to seek permission from anyone. Imagine if NASA or SpaceX stakeholders could vote directly on every project and guide the direction of the organization without having to get hired by the organization or go through the many gatekeepers and internal hierarchy.

This is but one of the many promising aspects of a DAO and one that we believe provides an excellent foundation to involve more people in the space industry which is on the verge of exponential growth.

Having a direct vote in a DAO can be surprising to those used to traditional organizations, but perhaps even more surprising to people new to Web3 is the transparency of everything that happens inside a DAO.

This transparency includes our discussions, decision-making, governance, votes, and even full transparency of our finances and treasury. You can take a [​look at our treasury right now​](https://app.moondao.com/analytics), even as someone with no involvement in MoonDAO, and see any incoming or outgoing transactions (and where they go, _exactly_).

Smart contracts created on Ethereum allow us to collectively control the treasury which means that we don’t have to worry about a single bad actor running off with the funds, which is accomplished through the use of a [​multi-signature safe​](https://help.gnosis-safe.io/en/articles/3876456-what-is-gnosis-safe) that needs 5 of the 7 members to approve any individual transaction before it can happen.

As mentioned previously, we are a living organization that is continually evolving. While we pride ourselves on having a flat hierarchy, being permissionless, and being open to anyone from any country, we are still in the process of progressively decentralizing and integrating more autonomous functions.

All DAOs are still learning and evolving as emergent virtual organizations but since we are so open and permissionless, we are continually seeking the right balance between autonomy and preventing bad actors from infiltrating the DAO.

DAOs are not perfect and they have some obvious pros and cons. One criticism of DAOs is that they can be slow, a side effect of being a deliberative body that relies on reaching a consensus with no central leadership. But like the old African proverb says, “If you want to go fast, go alone, if you want to go far, go together.”

We invite you to be part of this journey as we explore an exciting new model for human organization in an open and transparent way. Let’s go far together.

Don’t worry if you don’t understand everything about wallets, tokens, and voting yet. The goal of this email series is to continue expanding on these concepts and get you ready to cast your first MoonDAO vote.

In our next email, we will get you set up with a wallet that you will need to manage your governance tokens and be able to cast votes.
## Further Materials

- [​The Network State by Balaji Srinivasan​](https://amzn.to/3Umi86K): A book that explores the concept of assembling a digital community and organizing it to crowdfund physical territory, one that is spread around the world, fully decentralized, and hooked together by the internet for a common cause. Very applicable to MoonDAO!
- DAO Podcasts: Continue your learning with some DAO-focused podcasts like [​DAOn the Rabbit Hole​](https://open.spotify.com/show/3Z0n23rYtrhA7FxvxWoWH0), [​DAO or Never​](https://open.spotify.com/show/1GHOzTWZiHTf75edopC9zJ), [​rehash​](https://www.rehashweb3.xyz/), [​Campfire by Cabin​](https://podcasts.apple.com/us/podcast/campfire-by-cabin/id1613976598), or [​Green Pill​](https://podcasts.apple.com/us/podcast/greenpill/id1609313639), just to name a few of the many awesome podcasts exploring the space from different angles and perspectives.