Congratulations Cadet!

Welcome to your final day of Web3 onboarding! We have covered a lot during Phase 1 of your training missions and you’ve come a long way since we began. If you’ve been diligently following along and completing your Moon Missions, you already know more about the Web3 space than the vast majority of people on Earth. You should feel proud!

Let’s recap a little bit of what we’ve covered over the past week or so:

- The basics of Web3 and how it differs from earlier Web1 and Web2 spaces.
- An intro to Ethereum and how it serves as the rocket fuel to power Web3’s distributed computer system.
- Buying ETH on a centralized exchange like Coinbase.
- What DAOs are, how they are governed, and some of their pros and cons.
- Setting up a browser wallet like MetaMask to interact with Web3.
- Some of the VERY important security precautions you should take to stay safe, and avoid scams, phishing, and other bad actors.
- Transferring ETH to your browser wallet.
- Swapping ETH for MOONEY governance tokens using Uniswap.

It’s a lot to absorb, so don’t feel dissuaded if you don’t understand everything at this point in time and still feel a little lost in the Web3 space.

In reality, the best way to learn about DAOs and Web3 is by DOING.

{{ snippet.cta1 }}

Right now, you’ve got all the basic tools to become a DAO contributor, so during Phase 2 of your training we will be going into more detail about MoonDAO, how we operate, and how YOU can become more involved whether that means just staying informed about what we’re doing, voting on proposals and contributing to governance, or putting forward your own projects and proposals, or even becoming a full-time MoonDAO contributor.

But we've got one more mission for you...
## 🚀 Today’s Moon Mission

Help improve this onboarding email series by answering an anonymous survey about what can be improved or clarified so we can better help future users. It will only take a few minutes of your time!

[Take a Short Survey](https://forms.gle/f33z4CxRdNSXueeV9)

Going forward, you can expect a similar cadence of emails and by the end of Phase 2, you will have everything you need to be a full-fledged participant with MoonDAO. Get ready for your MoonDAO 101 course, coming up next.