Hey {{ subscriber.first_name | strip | default: "Earthling" }},

No matter how busy you are, there are ways you can start participating in MoonDAO today.

As an open organization, you can involve yourself as much or as little as works for you and your schedule. Our members tend to operate with varying levels of commitment ranging from just lurking and voting to working part-time on projects to going full-time with MoonDAO as their primary way to make a living.

That’s the power of an open, bottom-up organization – it is ultimately up to you (and a community of your peers to support your projects if you want to work for MoonDAO).

Regardless of your plans, one small step that we need everyone to do is to [​join us on Discord​](https://www.moondao.com/discord)!

Discord is a community chat server where all of the day-to-day business of MoonDAO is handled. That is where people talk about the latest space news, ideas are born, projects get proposed, discussions and debates take place, initial governance decisions are made, and where project and governance meetings take place. Discord is essentially our hub of operations.

The MoonDAO Discord community is open and welcoming to all, so if you haven’t yet, please join us and say hello!

{{ snippet.cta1 }}
## 🚀 Today’s Moon Mission

Your mission today is easy. [​Join the MoonDAO Discord​](https://www.moondao.com/discord) and introduce yourself. If it is your first time on Discord, you will have to create a new account, and any new MoonDAO Discord members will need to complete a few quick steps to agree to the community rules, verify you're not a bot, and so forth.

- [​**Join MoonDAO Discord**​](https://www.moondao.com/discord)
- **Introduce yourself** to the community and share a little bit about why you joined, where you are from, and what your background is. 

We also have different weekly meetings that you should try to join soon. The most important meeting is the weekly Governance Town Hall which provides updates about the community, we go into more detail about active or upcoming projects, and governance decisions are made by the MoonDAO senate. 

{{ snippet.events }} 

Now that you’ve taking your first small steps in getting involved in the community, we will take a step back in our following email and discuss some of the most important aspects that dictate the overall structure and governance of MoonDAO… You’re not going to want to miss that.