Welcome back MoonDAO frens, gm!

Glad to see that you’re still with us and welcome to Day 1 out of 7 of your Web3 onboarding.

While Captain Kirk called space the final frontier, many have called Web3 a vast new frontier in technology, one which we at MoonDAO believe can play an instrumental role in making humanity interplanetary while offering opportunities for governance, ownership, and involvement for all as we start expanding into that final frontier in the decades ahead.

But, wait, what exactly is Web3?

Valid question, and a little tough to answer since it’s an evolving concept that is still playing out before our eyes, but it is usually most illustrative to frame Web3 in the context of previous iterations of the internet.

- **Web1:** This was the world of static web pages built on open protocols that were passively consumed by users on desktop computers (and dial-up internet!) which was the primary way the internet was used in the 1990s and early 2000s.
- **Web2:** Beginning in the latter half of the 2000s, we were introduced to an internet dominated by large platforms of user-generated content that was owned and monetized by (mostly) large social media behemoths. Think Twitter, Facebook, YouTube, TikTok, etc. where the content you consume is made directly by fellow users, dynamically changing, and catered to each individual.
- **Web3:** The new Web3 era that we are entering is envisioned (or idealized) as replacing those centralized, corporate platforms with open protocols and decentralized community-led networks that have ownership and oversight of their information and contributions.

“If the pre-internet/web1 era favored publishers, and the web2 era favored the platforms, the next generation of innovations — collectively known as web3 — is all about tilting the scales of power and ownership back toward creators and users.” [​Li Jin and Katie Parrot​](https://every.mirror.xyz/y_WLA-Tk3VF5uPqHi-glDLVVfHxLUbjXakRI7SMISas)

The backbone of this new Web3 frontier is built on blockchain technology and cryptocurrencies, **so we need to get you up to speed on the basics of Web3 to be an active participant in MoonDAO**.

{{ snippet.cta1 }}

Even if you’ve been living on Mars for the past few years, you’ve likely heard of Bitcoin which is an open-source, peer-to-peer electronic cash system that was based on cryptographic proof instead of trusted third parties (like banks or governments).

The same technologies that underpin Bitcoin are what powers the developing Web3 ecosystem… We’re still talking about things like blockchains (distributed databases run in a peer-to-peer network that are immutable) and cryptocurrencies (a digital currency in which transactions are verified and records maintained by a decentralized system using cryptography, rather than by a centralized authority).

Don’t fret if that all sounds like Greek to you. One of the biggest initial barriers to entry in the Web3 space is trying to wrap your mind around all the technical terms, ideas, and jargon.

Sometimes those of us already involved (unintentionally) make this task all the more difficult by piling lingo on top of the jargon… You may still be wondering what on earth “gm, frens” means!

_(That’s crypto talk for "good morning, friends")_

We aren’t going to bog you down with dictionary definitions and terminology at this point, just know that these are things that you’ll have to pick up slowly over time until it all sinks in. The most important thing is to not let it dissuade you in your mission to the Moon, even NASA is full of acronyms and technical jargon!

Also, if you've only ever heard bad things about crypto, please bear in mind that MoonDAO is _not_ a crypto project, but a space project that uses the tools provided by crypto such as transparent governance, international access, and aligned incentives. We encourage you to proceed through these emails with an open mind about the technology and what it allows us to do collectively as a DAO.
## 🚀 Today’s Moon Mission

While Bitcoin is not the driving force behind much of Web3 as it exists today, it was the keystone that drove much of the developments that were to come. Having a general understanding of Bitcoin, the framework that it created, and where it came from will lay a solid foundation for the journey ahead.

- [​Read the Bitcoin Whitepaper​](https://bitcoin.org/bitcoin.pdf)

Bitcoin and the underlying philosophies developed during the 20+ year pursuit of the first true digital currency were an instrumental part of the drive toward decentralization and the current infrastructure that powers the decentralized Web3 world today – something we will delve deeper into during our next lesson.
## Further Reading

- [​The History of Bitcoin: When did Bitcoin start?​](https://cointelegraph.com/bitcoin-for-beginners/the-history-of-bitcoin-when-did-bitcoin-start)
- [​The Web3 Renaissance: A Golden Age for Content​](https://every.mirror.xyz/y_WLA-Tk3VF5uPqHi-glDLVVfHxLUbjXakRI7SMISas)
- [​The Crypto Story: Where it came from, what it all means, and why it still matters](https://www.bloomberg.com/features/2022-the-crypto-story/)