Hey {{ subscriber.first_name | strip | default: "Earthling" }},

Welcome to Day 4 out of 7 of your Web3 onboarding. In our past couple of emails, we’ve covered the basics of Web3, Ethereum, DAOs, and you’ve even purchased a small amount of Ether. Now, to put all these pieces together you will need to install a free wallet that allows you to hold your funds and interact with Web3 platforms, including MoonDAO. This is a longer email, but it contains a lot of very important information to keep your crypto funds and tokens safe.

A crypto wallet is like a regular wallet in that it allows you to store and spend funds, but rather than paper money, it is digital currencies, governance tokens (like MOONEY), NFTs, and other items.

While the term wallet is popular, it is actually a bit of a misnomer because the wallet itself does not actually hold your assets – it is more like keys to a safety deposit box where the assets are held. In fact, cryptocurrencies like Bitcoin or Ether are never stored in a physical location, a wallet is your private key which points to specific records or transactions on the blockchain that prove they belong to this particular wallet.

A popular refrain in the crypto community is **“Not your keys, not your coins.”** This harkens back to when you bought Ether on a Centralized Exchange like Coinbase. In reality, the exchange is the owner of that Ether, and they have a record that it belongs to you like an IOU. You are trusting them with that responsibility and hoping they are honest and allow you to access your funds.

It’s not common, but Centralized Exchanges have restricted access to individual accounts or have even failed completely (taking the money of all their users down with them). Leaving money on an exchange goes against one of the central tenets of crypto dating back to Bitcoin where the individual is meant to be empowered to directly control their money without any middlemen, intermediaries, or trusted third parties.

By transferring your Ether into your wallet, you are taking full responsibility for your assets… You are taking on the role of the bank, so to speak, which comes with both the good and the bad. The good is that you are free to do what you want – no one can stop you – but the bad is that there is no one to help you if you mess up.

"A creed that we all lived by: Failure is not an option.” - Gene Kranz, NASA

{{ snippet.cta2 }}
## 🚀 Today’s Moon Mission

There are many different types of wallets, but a browser wallet (also known as a “hot” wallet because it is connected to the Internet) is the easiest way to interact with the Web3 ecosystem. There are many options to choose from, but we recommend [​installing MetaMask​](https://metamask.io/download/) because it is one of the most popular and widely used.
### **1.** [​**Install MetaMask from Official Source**​](https://metamask.io/download/)

This wallet is a free and simple browser extension that is added to your favorite browser. You can also install it on your Android or iPhone, but just think about where you prefer to interact with the Web3 ecosystem whether a laptop or a cellphone.

[​https://www.metamask.io/download​](https://metamask.io/download/)

### **2. Create a New Wallet**

To start with you will need to create a password (use an original password with a mix of numbers, letters, cases, and symbols) – you can store this in a password manager.

Next, you will be shown your 12-word secret backup phrase – write this down on a piece of paper. The seed phrase shown is unique and the chances of it being repeated or guessed by someone are virtually zero. A 12-word security phrase doesn’t sound like much but it actually has [​more combinations of words​](https://trustwallet.com/blog/could-someone-guess-your-mnemonic) than there are stars in the universe, which [​we estimate to be 200 billion trillion​](https://bigthink.com/hard-science/how-many-stars-are-in-the-universe/#:~:text=There%20are%20approximately%20200%20billion,big%2C%20it's%20hard%20to%20imagine.)!

**VERY IMPORTANT:** This backup phrase (seed phrase) should be carefully guarded, it is what provides access to your assets. Remember how we said nothing is physically stored in these wallets? That means if you lose access to your wallet (like losing your computer or phone), you can magically restore access to your wallet on any other device by using that backup phrase. But, on the flip side, that means that anyone who obtains your backup phrase can access your funds and steal them – it's like giving them the keys to your house.

This means you should NEVER take a photo of your seed phrase, or store it in a digital file (whether on your hard drive or in the cloud), and you should _never, ever_ share it with anyone. No one at MoonDAO or anywhere else will ask you for your seed phrase – if they do, they are trying to steal your funds. The only time you will need your seed phrase is if you are trying to restore your wallet on another device or doing a fresh installation.

_Note: MetaMask will ask you to confirm the seed phrase one time after creating a new wallet._

For now, just write down your seed phrase on a piece of paper and keep it in a safe place. The password you created earlier acts as a security barrier to prevent someone from opening MetaMask if they have physical access to your computer or phone (such as a roommate or if someone stole the device), but the seed phrase is what allows access to be granted from _anywhere on earth_, making them popular targets for scammers.
### **3. Understanding Your Wallet**

MetaMask is pretty simple to use and self-explanatory. When you open it, you will see the total value of the assets stored in your wallet, you can see recent activity, and you will see the button to send funds to another wallet (this is the peer-to-peer functionality).

Since this is your first time using a crypto wallet, you’ll want to identify your Ethereum address which is a long series of numbers and letters that starts with 0x. This address is your unique identifying information and is like an email address or bank account number. This public address is something that you can share with people in order to receive funds and is also what you will use to transfer funds from a Centralized Exchange into your MetaMask wallet.
### **4. Bonus Moon Mission**

After creating a wallet and writing down your seed phrase, save your public Ethereum address and then delete MetaMask. You can then reinstall MetaMask and restore your wallet using the seed phrase… If your public Ethereum address matches the one from the first installation, you were successfully able to restore a wallet, congratulations! Practicing this once or twice with no funds or assets at risk gives peace of mind.
## In Summary

Hopefully, we didn’t scare you off with all those warnings, but they are to convey to you the seriousness of practicing good security habits in Web3. Cryptocurrencies, seed phrases, and wallets are all _extremely_ secure – which is what makes them so appealing in a trust-free system – but they are prone to user error.

Virtually all of the “hacks” that happen in crypto are because someone accidentally shared their seed phrase (storing it on the cloud or tricked into revealing it) or they interacted with a malicious smart contract on a scam website.

Browser wallets are a compromise between convenience and security – you should _never_ store large amounts of assets in a browser wallet… In this case, the “wallet” term is quite fitting. You would never walk around with your life savings in your back pocket, so treat this wallet in a similar fashion. It’s a big responsibility to be your own bank, so take these first steps with small amounts of money that won’t be traumatic if you mess up.

That advice holds true for crypto in general… It is a volatile industry and is still like the Wild West: never play with more than you can afford to lose. If you do get to the point where you are holding larger amounts of cryptocurrencies, there are better options than a browser wallet, such as using a hardware wallet which is a physical device that stores your keys or using a multi-sig wallet which requires confirmations from multiple wallets to perform any transaction (like what the MoonDAO treasury uses).

Scams, security, and staying safe in Web3 are some of the big things that scare people off, so in our next email, we are going to be diving a little deeper into how to protect yourself. You’re not going to want to miss that!

## Further Reading

- [​MetaMask: The Beginner’s Guide​](https://medium.com/@decryptmedia/metamask-the-beginners-guide-6111143f2581): Step-by-step details about setting up a new MetaMask wallet.
- [​What is a Seed Phrase? Everything You Need to Know About Recovery Phrases​](https://bitpay.com/blog/what-are-seed-phrases/)
- [​Find an Ethereum Wallet from the Ethereum Foundation​](https://ethereum.org/en/wallets/find-wallet/): If you want an alternative to MetaMask, there are dozens to choose from.