Hey {{ subscriber.first_name | strip | default: "Earthling" }},

Welcome to Day 5 out of 7 of your Web3 onboarding. Last time we got you all set up with a wallet that will act as your gateway to Web3. Forget about going to websites and having to log in with your email and password, now you can just connect your wallet to Web3 sites and immediately unlock their functionality.

As you hopefully remember, when you take control of your coins with your own keys, you effectively become the bank and are solely responsible for the security of any assets held there, including cryptocurrencies, tokens, or NFTs.

This is incredibly empowering but also a _big_ responsibility.

And Web3 is kind of like being in outer space where no one can hear you scream…

This means that you can’t just call up Ethereum or MetaMask and ask them to give you your money back or reverse a transaction if you made a mistake or got caught in a scam. Even _if_ they wanted to help you, they can’t – they don’t have that ability, since there are no intermediaries or third parties involved in a peer-to-peer, decentralized system.

And unfortunately, wherever humans and money interact, there exists the possibility of scams, or people trying to cheat, steal, and deceive. That’s why you should always think twice and do your DD (due diligence) before doing anything that involves your wallet. Scammers are always evolving, but there are some common scams that you should be aware of as someone new to this space.

{{ snippet.cta1 }}

## Phishing Scams

Phishing scams are old news by now, but they have taken on new life in the world of crypto and Web3. They may come in the form of an email pretending to be a trusted source like Coinbase or MetaMask and ask you to verify your account for some reason. If you click on the link, you’ll be redirected to a site that looks official but is designed to steal your funds, often by tricking you into revealing your password or seed phrase.

Never click links from unknown senders and always verify the website URL address where you are browsing. Also, be careful with sponsored ad results from Google – some scams slip through and actually lead to a fake website that is pretending to be the site you were searching for. It is better to bookmark any sites you have utilized (and trust) and use that going forward.

**REMEMBER:** You should never reveal your seed phrase to _anyone_. The only time you will ever need your seed phrase is if you are trying to restore your wallet on a new device or doing a fresh installation. Even if Vitalik Buterin himself (co-founder of Ethereum) is asking for your seed phrase, don’t give it to him!

On that note, there’s another dumb but popular scam where social media accounts pretending to be Vitalik Buterin or Elon Musk say they will send you back double the Ether or Bitcoin that you send to them in order to celebrate some milestone. That’s FREE money! Nope, not real, and you can kiss those funds goodbye because the transactions are irreversible.

If you do ask for help related to crypto on any public platform, be very cautious of anyone offering to help you, claiming they are from customer support, or otherwise contacting you privately in your direct messages. The same holds true within MoonDAO, do not trust people contacting you privately to “help you” with your wallet – we are an open community that can be infiltrated by scammers so always stick to public channels for sensitive things involving your wallet.

Anyone who is helping you honestly will be willing to help you publicly.

## Airdrop Scams

Speaking of free money, another popular tactic is what is known as an airdrop scam where new tokens just appear out of thin air in your wallet. Many times those tokens have intriguing-sounding names and include a URL. Their sole objective is to get you to go to that website to try and redeem this “free” money by connecting your wallet to their scam website.

Don’t be tempted.

If you don’t recognize the source or reason for a token appearing in your wallet, just pretend that it never happened and assume it is a scam. Remember to always do your DD.

One thing that we recommend is setting up alerts on a site like [​Etherscan.io​](https://www.etherscan.io), a leading blockchain explorer that allows you to see transactions, to email you a notification for any incoming or outgoing transaction associated with your wallet.

## Malicious Websites

Crypto itself is secure and virtually hack-proof, but the Earthlings that use it are more prone to making mistakes like revealing their seed phrase or connecting to malicious websites, so always be careful when connecting your wallet to new websites.

While using “Connect Wallet” to sign in to a website isn’t dangerous by itself (it is like giving a website your email address), it isn’t something you should do carelessly. In order to put yourself in real danger from a website with a malicious smart contract, you would still need to sign the contract and pay gas fees, but sometimes people are absentminded or tired and fall for a trap.

Always stop to think twice when making any transaction with your wallet. Getting into the habit now may save you from potential heartache down the road. Learning which sites are trustworthy or not is something that will take time. For now, we recommend only using the tools or websites mentioned within these emails, but you shouldn’t believe us blindly. In fact, doing your own research (DYOR) and due diligence (DD) will be your best friend in the long run.

In our next email, we will have you making your first real transactions on the Ethereum blockchain, so hopefully, you have gotten your hands on some ETH and are ready to launch with MoonDAO!

## Further Reading

- [​What To Know About Cryptocurrency and Scams​](https://consumer.ftc.gov/articles/what-know-about-cryptocurrency-and-scams) from the United States FTC
- [​5 Crypto Scams To Watch Out For​](https://www.forbes.com/advisor/investing/cryptocurrency/top-crypto-scams/) by Forbes
- [​How to tell if a smart contract is safe to interact with​](https://metamask.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/10143114273563-How-to-tell-if-a-smart-contract-is-safe-to-interact-with) by MetaMask