Hey {{ subscriber.first_name | strip | default: "Earthling" }},

Welcome to Day 2 out of 7 of your MoonDAO onboarding. No matter how busy you are, there are ways you can start participating in MoonDAO today.

As an open organization, you can involve yourself as much or as little as works for you and your schedule. Our contributors tend to operate with varying levels of commitment ranging from just lurking and voting to working part-time on projects to going full-time with MoonDAO as their primary daily commitment.

That’s the power of an open, bottom-up organization – it is ultimately up to you (and a community of your peers to support your projects if you want to work for MoonDAO).

Regardless of your plans, one small step that we need everyone to do is to [​join us on Discord​](https://www.moondao.com/discord)!

Discord is a community chat server where all of the day-to-day business of MoonDAO is handled. That is where discussions and debates take place, projects get proposed, initial governance decisions are made, and we chat about space news and share details about weekly Town Hall or Leadership meetings. Discord is essentially our hub of operations.

The MoonDAO Discord community is open and welcoming to all, so if you haven’t yet, please join us and say hello!

{{ snippet.cta1 }}
## 🚀 Today’s Moon Mission

Your mission today is easy. [​Join the MoonDAO Discord​](https://www.moondao.com/discord) and introduce yourself. If it is your first time on Discord, you will have to create a new account, and any new MoonDAO Discord members will need to go through our Start Here onboarding process and complete a few reaction roles which prove you are human.

- [​**Join MoonDAO Discord**​](https://www.moondao.com/discord)
- **Introduce yourself** to the community and share a little bit about why you joined, where you are from, and what your background is. Don’t forget to mention you’re going through the email onboarding too!
- Finally, be sure to **connect and verify roles** during the Start Here process to open the full Discord permissions. We use [​Guild.xyz​](https://guild.xyz/moondao) to manage roles, which also has a roadmap for actions you should take next.

We also have different weekly meetings that you should try to join this week. The two principal meetings are the weekly Town Hall which provides broader updates about the community, and the Leadership meeting which is where we go into more detail about active or upcoming projects. {{ snippet.events }} If it's your first time, we recommend attending our Townhall but if you're eager to contribute, then the Leadership meeting may be more appropriate for you. Feel free to just come and eavesdrop on the call or step up and introduce yourself to everyone.

Now that you’re taking your first small steps in getting involved in the community, we will take a step back in our following email and discuss some of the most important aspects that dictate the overall structure and governance of MoonDAO… You’re not going to want to miss that.