Hey {{ subscriber.first_name | strip | default: "Earthling" }},

Welcome to Day 3 out of 7 of your MoonDAO onboarding. In our previous email, we got you [​set up in Discord​](https://www.moondao.com/discord) and helped you go from lurker to commentator. But Discord can feel like jumping into the deep end of the pool with the sheer number of conversations that are happening simultaneously. Indeed, joining any organization usually entails a steep uphill climb to understand the internal processes, documentation, dynamics, and governance structure – and MoonDAO is no exception.

One of the universal aspects of a DAO is governance by token stakeholders and direct voting for anything that involves the treasury or other major decisions.

MoonDAO uses the MOONEY governance token which was created during Phase 1 of our mission and provides the power to govern the DAO directly to stakeholders who collectively cast votes.

It’s important to remember that the MOONEY token is strictly for governance, and there is no expectation of profit with the token, nor does it represent fractionalized ownership. Discussion about the fluctuation of token prices is not productive toward our mission; MoonDAO is not built for day traders, it is built for long-term optimists.

**If you are here to speculate and discuss the token rather than help build MoonDAO and progress its mission, this DAO is not for you.**

MoonDAO’s North Star for governance is the constitution which took many, many months of debate from many different voices and participants to reach a consensus on each of the articles within the constitution. The constitution itself was a huge milestone for MoonDAO as we decentralize further and put the fate of the DAO into the hands of the token holders.

The MoonDAO [​Constitution was passed on September 20th, 2022​](https://snapshot.org/#/tomoondao.eth/proposal/0x390b65991fca0219fa8fa38d2494ac1602ad6bc213f41124ab75ee27ef39b605) by more than 200 voters who voted overwhelmingly in favor, setting the stage to pursue the goals outlined in our Road Map. It codifies not only the fundamental elements of our governance but also our vision and values as we move toward them. These include commitments to transparency with the use of MoonDAO funds, transparency of communication, and the bottom-up nature of our organization.

MoonDAO, like many other DAOs, is in the process of undergoing progressive decentralization and the implementation of more autonomous functions. This means that we use a mix of both on-chain and off-chain mechanisms for governance. In practice, this means that we use off-chain voting and rely on trusted members of the community to implement the will of voters with the treasury via a multi-sig wallet that requires 5 of the 7 members to authorize the use or transfer of any funds.

The appointment (and removal) of key members of MoonDAO, including multi-sig signatories in the Executive Branch, is one of many things outlined in the constitution.

{{ snippet.cta2 }}

## 🚀 Today’s Moon Mission

While these emails will shorten your learning curve to understanding MoonDAO’s processes and structures, we will continually point you to further reading and resources to deepen your understanding.

MoonDAO’s constitution, as mentioned, is the document that guides much of our internal processes, vision, and mission, so it is considered required reading for every new MoonDAO member if they want to move beyond the role of Earthling to becoming an active voter, Moon Settler, or contributor.

- [​Read the MoonDAO Constitution​](https://docs.moondao.com/constitution/)

While this might seem like a dry or academic exercise, this is a must-do if you want to be an informed voter, MoonDAO participant, and good steward of the treasury. So take the time to read through the constitution.

In the next email, we will talk more specifically about how you can start exercising your rights as a MOONEY holder and participate in important governance decisions in our mission to decentralize access to space and make it available to everyone!