Hey {{ subscriber.first_name | strip | default: "Earthling" }},

Welcome to Day 4 out of 7 of your MoonDAO onboarding. Last time we chatted about the MoonDAO’s Constitution and some of the most important elements that guide our internal processes from how we vote, how projects advance, and how treasury transactions proceed, as well as our vision, values, and mission. We hope you took the time to [​read the Constitution​](https://docs.moondao.com/constitution/), as it provides the bedrock and understanding for the most fundamental aspects of the DAO.

For a new MoonDAO member, one of the easiest ways to start participating is by voting on proposals and participating in governance. We put all important decisions up for a vote by stakeholders, especially those that involve the treasury which is controlled by a multi-sig wallet.

You can also easily take a [​look at the treasury​](https://dashboard.moondao.com/#/treasury) to get a better idea of our available resources and any incoming or outgoing transactions. This is part of the radical transparency of a DAO.

By this point in time, you should have a small amount of MOONEY tokens that permit you to play a role in governance. If you haven’t already, swap a small amount of [​ETH for MOONEY on Uniswap​](https://app.uniswap.org/#/swap?inputCurrency=ETH&outputCurrency=0x20d4DB1946859E2Adb0e5ACC2eac58047aD41395&chain=mainnet) so you can follow the rest of the onboarding process and learn by doing.

NOTE: Swapping isn’t a requirement and you can receive MOONEY by contributing to projects or completing tasks, but most choose to get started with a small amount so they can start participating immediately with no gatekeepers or delays waiting for distribution.

## How to Vote with MoonDAO

In order to make MoonDAO governance stronger and more mission-aligned, we utilize some innovative solutions to ensure the integrity of voters and ensure that small stakeholders have a voice.

One of the biggest changes enacted with the MoonDAO constitution was the introduction of a Stake-to-Vote system for governance, which is a mechanism whereby holders must lock up their MOONEY tokens for a period of time, providing vMOONEY (voting MOONEY) which is used exclusively for voting.

This ensures that those who vote and make decisions regarding the treasury, projects, and governance decisions are not speculators or profit seekers and are aligned with MoonDAO’s long-term mission.

The longer amount of time that the token is staked for augments the total voting power in governance decisions (the maximum is four years to receive a 1:1 ratio). The staked vMOONEY is also dynamic and decreases depending on the total time remaining in the lock-up period, offering diminishing voting power as that date approaches, until eventually reaching zero.

vMOONEY is a dynamically changing representation of how much MOONEY you staked and for how long. When the staking period ends you will have zero vMOONEY and the original staked amount of MOONEY will be released again. vMOONEY can neither be bought nor sold is basically an intangible representation of your voting power based.

{{ snippet.cta1 }}

**Example:** Stake 100 MOONEY for two years (half of the maximum) and receive 50 vMOONEY in return. After one year has passed the vMOONEY will have reduced to approximately 25 total as the release date approaches. Users can increase the total time or stake more MOONEY to increase voting power. Once the lock period has passed, vMOONEY reaches zero and the original balance of 100 MOONEY becomes available again.

[​Quadratic voting​](https://docs.snapshot.org/proposals/voting-types), which we are in the process of implementing, strengthens the ability of new, upcoming participants with fewer tokens; instead of letting the users with the most tokens overwhelmingly control any vote, quadratic voting takes the current vMOONEY and puts out the square root of that balance as their final voting power.

In other words, even small stakeholders are incentivized to voice their unique perspective, and the smallest amounts of vMOONEY in the hands of a majority can triumph over individual token holders with deep pockets and can make a colossal difference when aggregated together.

**Example:** 1,000,000 MOONEY in the current voting system means they have one million votes, 10x the voting power of someone with 100,000 MOONEY. Using Quadratic Voting, someone with 1,000,000 vMOONEY would have 1,000 voting power, compared to 316 voting power for someone with 100,000 vMOONEY – approximately 3x more, instead of 10x more.

## Today’s Moon Mission

We hope you understand the underlying reasons for using stake-to-vote and quadratic voting. Your Moon Mission today is to ensure that you are ready to participate in governance decisions going forward. In order to complete this mission, you will need to have MOONEY in your wallet and enough ETH to cover gas fees.

**1.** [​**Stake MOONEY for vMOONEY**​](https://app.moondao.com/) - Connect Wallet and select the number of tokens you wish to lock and for how long. The maximum time is four years to receive 1:1 MOONEY to vMOONEY.

- [​Watch this video for a step-by-step guide​](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=suKBRdo2T6I&t)
- [​Read the documentation​](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1OQ5IDOFj9oB62I7gERR6Qr32IExiNOTGdicze-AF2y4/edit)

By staking Mooney, you will unlock the Stakeholder role via [​Guild.xyz​](https://guild.xyz/moondao) and have access to MoonDAO's City Hall.

**2.** [​**Join MoonDAO Snapshot**​](https://snapshot.org/#/tomoondao.eth)

- Snapshot is where voting takes place (off-chain and gasless) – you will want to connect your wallet to Snapshot and click “Join” in the MoonDAO governance space.
- Don’t forget to turn on browser notifications for new proposals in Snapshot.

If you follow on Snapshot and make your first vote, you will get the Voting Member role via [​Guild.xyz​](https://guild.xyz/moondao).

If there are any active votes right now and you have just completed the stake-to-vote process then you won’t be able to vote yet, but you should be able to cast your first MoonDAO vote during the next round of proposals. Don’t worry, one will undoubtedly come up pretty soon!

MoonDAO also uses shielded voting which means the results of the vote are hidden while the proposal is active (so current results don’t influence ongoing voting) but will be revealed after voting closes. Part of voting in the Web3 space also means that how you voted will be revealed at the conclusion, which goes hand-in-hand with MoonDAO’s transparency.

That’s a lot to digest in one email, but if you have any questions or need help, don’t hesitate to ask for help in the Support channel on Discord. In our next email, we’ll be chatting more about MoonDAO’s history and how we got to where we are today!